# journey2html

journey2html is a Python-based tool for generating static HTML files from Journey backups. journey2html is a [SUSE Hackweek 0x10](https://hackweek.suse.com/) project.


## Rationale

The [Journey](https://2appstudio.com/journey/) app is perfect for keeping a journal or a diary. While it can output the journal entries a number of ways, the app cannot export data in a ready-to-publish format. However, Journey can create backup archives containing JSON and JPEG files). As the name suggests, journey2html makes it possible to generate nicely-formatted static HTML pages using the JSON and JPEG backup files.

### Advantages

- journey2html does the job
- It runs on any machine with Python 3
- The script generates clean static HTML files that can be easily hosted on practically anywhere


### Limitations

- The entire solution depends on the commercial closed-source Journey app. No Journey, no fun.
- journey2html is a one-trick pony
- No embellishments like tags, pagination, search, social sharing, or other decadent eccentricities


## Dependencies

The script requires the *lxml* and *markdown* Python modules. HTML pages generated by journey2html are styled using the [Sakura]()(https://github.com/oxalorg/sakura) CSS.

## Installation

- Install the required Python modules on Linux, use the `sudo pip3 install lxml markdown` command
- Clone the *journet2html* repository by running the `git clone https://github.com/dmpop/journey2html.git` command. Alternatively, grab the latest source in the ZIP format and unpack the downloaded archive.

While it's possible the script directly from the *journey2html* directory, you can also install it system-wide using the followin commands:

```
sudo cp journey2html.py  /usr/local/bin/journey2html
sudo chown root:root /usr/local/bin/journey2html
sudo chmod 755 /usr/local/bin/journey2html
```

## Publishing Steps

1. In the Journey app, create a backup archive containing journal entries you want to publish
2. Download the backup archive to your machine
3. Run the *journey2html* script
4. Upload the entire contents of the backup directory (which now includes the generated HTML page) to your web server

## Usage

Run the `journey2html /path/to/journal-xxxxxxxxxxxxx.zip` command (if the script is not installed system-wide, use `./journey2html.py` instead of `journey2html`). Replace */path/to/journal-xxxxxxxxxxxxx.zip* with the actual path to the Journey backup ZIP archive.
